Lore adaptation notes:
1) No switching variations:
The books do not seem to specify if there are subtypes within each slot 
(i.e. different types of strength, ability to set traps vs find opponent weakpoints for head, etc). 
Instead, it basically just seems to involve playing cards which are good for each slot (without these tradeoffs).
Therefore, once a card is played in a slot, since they also cannot move slots, one variation will be stritcly as good/better than the others. 
Thus, the switching of variations does not actually serve a helpful purpose. 
Moreover, there is a slight incentive for each player to switch variations as much as allowed in the hopes of their opponent playing an additional card, 
giving them more information commiting their cards, which simply wastes time as neither player has any reason to do this.
Finally, there is no game advantage to keeping this mechanic since its not as though
additional cards are drawn or anything to give more options for the player. 
Therefore, this mechanic was simply removed, and a card can just be played at any variation.

In the text, there is some abiguity over whether the last card can switch variations 
(it discusses playing the final card locking the others in, but does this mean there is time to before locking in the last card to change its variations)?
Playing it in a different variationwas allowed as much of the game already is about managing the variance of the last card(s) drawn, 
which would become even more extreme if only the first variation was allowed. This would lead to a complete lack of choice for the last slot, 
contrary to how the books make it feel, as well as exacerbating problems with gameplay.

2)Variations being better than others:
Since the game uses expicit numbers, it is easy to see that each card has a best variation per stat.
Indeed, the AI just uses the max value per stat when considering each card. Nevertheless, out of respect to the lore, 
all 3 variations are shown on the card and the player must specify which variation to use

3)Scoring:
The game scores itself by simulating the two creatures and having them fight. This is obviously impractical on anything other than a dedicated modeling/fighting simulation,
and is well beyond the scope of the project. Even moreso, a truly faithful adaptation would require creating a unique special ability for each creature and weaving it into gameplay. 
Therefore, two different scoring systems were created. The first just judges based on how the creatures compare across the different categories. 
This is designed to be a bit more competitive (see technical notes), but is less lore accurate. 
The alternative is a battle system, which is meant to feel more accurate to the books. However this leads to the next point about categories.

3a) Categories:
The books do not go into detail about how the different cetagories interact/functions served. 
For example, what is the benefit of a good vs medium vs bad temper? Is the idea that the creature will be cowardly and run away? 
They are already fighting, and Heart is responsible for not giving up. Meanwhile, does strength determine which animal is strongr when fighting (e.g. like two bucks knocking antlers)? 
Or does it refer to sharpness/how effective a creature can be at breaking its opponent's skin? The battle simulator used these interpertations-
Heart: Corresponds to how determined/long a creature will fight, so becomes health
Skin: how tough a creatures skin is (essentially a Defense Stat)
Strength: the counterpart to skin, essentially a base Offense Stat to break skin 
(based on the fights in the book, it was imagined that fights would be more about slashing each other, so strength should oppose skin, rather than blugeoning and having two creatures strength oppose each other)
Temper: How aggressive a creature is, which is essentially a rage modifier to increase power of an attack
Speed: how fast it is, which determines how many attacks it can do (even though the battles are divided into rounds for ease of tracking, the idea is it increase damage per second, so it also is an attack modifier.
Note - theoretically speed might be used to increase dodge/evasion as well, but this risked making it too overbearing)
Special: Theoretically, special should not be a number system at all, and should overturn the entire structure of the fight. Even if not taken to that extreme, 
it is still possible to have it provide various modifiers with different effects on health, defense, and offense. 
Nevertheless, having special not be a simple ranking on a 1-100 scale would make it much more difficult to create an AI for,
and the basic nature of the combat system means there is not much room for each creature to have its own unique special ability. 
Therefore, the descision was made for practical purposes to simply treat using the special ability as a form of suprise extra damage,
making it at least feel bursty and special, even if in a very different way than is described.
Head: how smart it is. This could be taken in a number of ways, including chances of finding a weak spot, creating a trap, etc,
but it instead was taken to pair with special to help balance out the "critical hit" nature of the mechanic. 
The idea is that s smarter creature can more often manuever the battle to put itself in a situation where it can bring its special ability to bear.

3b) Interaction
The book says that much of the point of the game is to trick your opponent regardig what type of creature you are making. However,
it does not explain how this is done, or what affect it might have. This might imply subcategories as suggested in point 1, but even if so,
there is still no elaboration of what they might be or how they would interact. Therefore, they were not included i the game. A consequence 
is that while the points system in particular does encourage some adjustment of play based on the opponent's board, the overall interaction 
level between players when creature building is markedly less than the feeling conveyed in the text.

4) Cards in deck:
The books specify that the deck is 100 cards, but also shows that multiple copies of a card can exist. 
There are no hints given about the ferquency of common versus uncommon cards, and whether, as with many card games, stronger cards are less frequent.
A maximum of 3 of the same card per deck was set to ensure sufficient card variety, 
while also trying to avoid it being too ridiculous for the same card to be played by both players (as what appeared to happen in the game in the books). 
On that note, it is implied that each creature is only ever paired with others in a set, so they were in fact the same card. 
Moreover, a system was created so the more extreme the stats on a card, the less frequent it would appear in the deck to make these cards feel more unique.

Another aspect which is not specified is whether the deck is standardized like a draft cube or just a pile of 100 valid cards. 
The books mention that a certain card is rarely seen, but is that due to being 1 card in a game which is rarely played, and which only have 14/100 cards played game? 
Or is it that the card is rare so it is not even in most decks? For simplicity's sake, the assumption was made tat there is a stanadardized deck.

5) Card Names
Jus to be on the safe side, even though this just a nonmonetarized passion project, no names from the book have been copied/used